Downloaded from
YTS.MX
Official YIFY movies site:
I've found a guide who can
take you safely to your destination.
He's local.
and they say people from there
have centuries of experience
with the weather. rivers.
and glaciers.
Will he require payment?
- Will he what?
- Yes. yes.
But you will have need for
his knowledge.
He's a good worker too.
he can help build the church.
As you wish.
Lucas... I must remind you...
or...
The island is very different
from Denmark.
People there...
the weather. the winter.
everything is completely different.
What I mean to say... it is of
paramount importance that
the church is built and ready
before winter arrives.
This is understood. yes?
The church will be ready
before the first snow.
Many are moving from the east coast
because of the volcano that erupted.
Will this impact my journey?
No. Well. you probably won't pass
near the volcano. but it'll be more
difficult to read the rivers.
they can rise more than usual.
They say the volcano emits a stench.
a smell so foul. it's as if
the Earth has shat its pants.
The smell can be so overwhelming
that people lose their minds.
That's easy to do up there.
It's summer now.
so it's bright both day and night.
This can be exhausting for people
who've never been there before.
They can literally forget to sleep.
My interpreter has warned me.
When I look at your face
it reminds me of myself
thirty years ago.
A slightly healthier version...
Lucas...
you must adapt to the circumstances
of the country and its people.
Otherwise.
your task will come to nothing.
I'm well aware that at times
your task will seem... monumental.
And it's true. it is. and no one
claims that it will be an easy one.
This is why you were chosen.
But forget all that
and think about the apostles.
sent to preach to the world.
The whole world and everyone in it.
This wretched. miserable. pathetic
flock of lonely men.
But they did it. Which means
that no task is impossible.
And therefore.
your task is not impossible.
GODLAND (in Danish)
A wooden box was found in Iceland.
with seven wet plate photographs
taken by a Danish priest.
These images are the very first
photos of the southeast coast.
This film is inspired
by these photographs.
It's important that they
stare straight in the eye.
He says it's important
to look directly into the eye.
Remember. you must stand still...
You're not supposed to move.
Completely still.
- Dead still!
As if you're dead.
Just. as if you're dead.
Shush...
One. two. three.
four. five. six.
GODLAND (in Icelandic)
Remember the letters and the books.
How do you say books?
Bók. singular... bækur. plural.
Bók... bækur.
Like a native.
- Shut your mouth!
And how do you say that?
- What?
Shut your mouth.
There are many ways to say
shut your mouth in Icelandic.
just like there are many ways
to describe bad weather.
Rigning.
Suddi.
Úrkoma.
Úði.
Vatnsveður.
I can't... I can't remember them all.
Úrhellisrigning.
Pass.
Demba. skúr...
That's... that's enough.
- Slepja...
Úrhelli.
- Stop.
Votviðri. væta. hrakviðri.
And all of those words mean rain?
- Yes.
Make up your minds.
Rigning...
Rigning... (rain)
Bátur... (boat)
Bátur. (boat)
- Yeah.
Prestur. (priest)
Maður. (man)
Maður og prestur. (man and priest)
Who is going to read all these books?
The priest.
Damn nonsense...
How heavy is it?
We'll work it out.
It'll slow us down.
We can distribute the weight.
Saw it in half.
Saw what?
- Saw the cross in half!
We don't have a saw.
Let's ride and let's ride hard.
into the woods...
long is the journey...
Are you Ragnar?
The foals are lazy.
I've lost my knife.
lost my shoe...
Do you speak Danish?
Ride. ride in a row!
The horse's name is Planke!
The foal's name is Abildgrá
and Ole will ride it.
Where is he riding?
To the royal court
to woo his fiancée.
Tania is her name.
I'm Lucas.
The priest.
A Danish devil.
You have a horse?
Yes. many. Many horses.
You have a horse for me?
This is your horse.
a fine horse.
Up!
Now?
- Yes.
We're leaving right now?
Up!
Open the gate.
What's his name?
Torsk. Þorskur.
Cod?
Like a fish?
Pull evenly on the harness!
What?
Easy.
Don't be so rough on him.
What?
Easy.
- No. no. no. no.
Get off.
Get off!
Look at this. Still. still!
Look!
Like this. slow and easy. Look!
Can you see how I do it?
Up. like this. Friðrik!
Don't ruin a perfectly good horse.
Dog!
Then we drag in the catch
tomorrow morning.
Ragnar. I don't understand
what you are saying.
Good night. priest.
Do you want to play?
Want to play? Yeah.
Want to play?
And how is the pasture
before the sands?
There's plenty to bite.
Then I'll take three. and one sheep.
that should do it.
You won't get the horses.
The horses...
Why would I want the horses?
You won't get them.
I don't want your horses.
we have plenty of horses.
Good. cause you won't get them.
Good. Has your father
lost his senses?
Yes.
Pay the man.
You are supposed to pay.
For what?
Grass for the horses.
There will be no pastures
when we go across the sand.
You look miserable.
Uncrossable seems the river today...
The current is worst of all.
With large icebergs floating around.
no horse will walk through it...
A bit more.
It's on both sides. but never mind.
Now we lift it.
Up with the animal!
Where are you going?
Where are we going?
Off to find a picture.
To find a picture.
I'm not sure if I'm allowed
to tell this story.
but here it goes anyway.
I don't remember exactly
how many years ago this happened.
but the man in the story
is still alive...
and he's not that old.
He had been traveling
around these parts for over a day
before finally finding
a place to rest.
But during the night he woke up
because his horse was uneasy.
It was a bright night. like now.
and the horse couldn't stay still.
The man tried to calm the horse down.
it was a wise horse.
it had never acted like this before
so the man was becoming uneasy.
When the horse finally
calmed down.
the man heard something moving
in the grass by the riverbank
and was very startled when he looked
into the water. filled with eels.
The eels were crawling over
each other in the slimy mud...
Do eels have teeth?
Shut your mouth!
And the man instantly realized
that he was witnessing
a breeding process that no living man
had ever seen before.
But what the man
found most frightening
was that the eels
emitted peculiar sounds.
A sound that was strangely familiar
to women's sounds of pleasure.
This was a brave man.
not afraid of anything.
so he went back to rest
close to the water
and quickly fell into a deep sleep.
exhausted after a long journey.
But when he woke up.
he didn't feel very well.
He was dripping with sweat
and drained.
He could sense
that something was wrong
so he grabbed the largest stone
he could find
and stormed towards the water
and threw it fiercely into it.
And when the water settled.
not a single eel could be seen.
He rode off in such a hurry
that he forgot the saddlebag
with all the food.
When he had traveled
for a while.
he began to remember
what he dreamt that night.
It was hard for him to describe
his dream.
but this is what he told me.
He dreamt he was
approaching his farm;
it was illuminated with oil lamps.
a thick smoke was hanging
over the farmhouse.
He got off his horse and entered the
house and into a thick wall of steam
and saw the house was full of
naked men from neighboring farms.
He knew their faces
but couldn't speak.
Then he began losing all strength
in his legs
and slumped to the floor.
No one came to help.
they didn't even look at him.
Then he began hearing a
strangely familiar sound
and when he looked further
into the house he saw his wife
lying under another man.
He watched as men took turns
on his wife.
while she moaned like
the eels in the mud.
He couldn't move a muscle.
couldn't breathe a word.
At this point in the story
the man was tearful.
saying that he had to
witness this horror
for what seemed to be
an eternity.
After this terrible nightmare
he couldn't face
a single man in the region.
He even had trouble
being intimate with his wife.
But each and every year
after this event.
he searched out every single
marsh and pond in the region
and ripped apart and shred to pieces
every single dirty eel he could find.
Can we cross the river?
It's deeper than I thought.
What does that mean?
Deep. It's very deep today.
But can we cross the river?
Don't know.
You don't know?
What do we do then?
If we can't cross the river here.
we can't cross it anywhere.
All other spots are uncrossable.
If we can't cross the river here.
we can't cross it at all.
Then we'll cross here.
We'll do it now.
Or we go back for a day
to find pastures
and return in two days
to assess the river.
We go back to find pastures
and return in two days.
Two days?
No. we're crossing it now.
Get ready.
We're crossing the river today.
It's just water.
If it falls.
then just try to hold on to him.
It always finds a way to cross.
What?
Wait! No! Help!
Ragnar! Ragnar!
No!
Ragnar!
I don't know what
God intended for him.
but he must've been
needed elsewhere.
Sometimes. a life must end
so that another can be born.
Rest in peace. my friend.
Where have you been?
Go away.
Keep moving.
Come on. Be determined.
Easy now.
Easy. easy.
Come here! Not that hard.
Relax the reins a bit.
Just come down.
We can come this way up.
Priest. Come down here.
I can't do this anymore. Ragnar.
What are you saying?
Come on. What's going on. priest?
Get your ass down here
and get the horse up on this side.
Snæsa. come and help him.
Where do you come from. waterfall?
Which way do you travel home?
Will you come to us?
Or will you travel with them?
Two. three. four.
five. six. seven.
eight. nine.
Your dog moved less than you.
Goddammit!
Satan!
It's getting rather cold.
He isn't looking so good.
What happened to your hands?
Bárður. Þórður. Böðvar. Lúðvík.
Héðinn. Beinir. Ari. Kári.
Torfur. Borgar. Konrák. Hinrik.
Kjartan. Marteinn. Svartur. Ketill.
Bjarni. Árni. Ljótur. Pétur...
Túlkur. (translator)
Bárður. Þórður. Böðvar. Lúðvík.
Héðinn. Beinir. Ari. Kári.
Steindór. Einar. Haukur.
Krákur. Hannes...
Heavenly Father. my Lord. and my God.
who made me when I was nothing.
Things are not going as planned.
I cannot travel any more.
I cannot ride any further.
My body is...
I can't sleep here tonight.
I cannot speak to anyone.
I don't have a voice.
I can't be here any longer.
with these people.
I need help.
Help me. advise me and remain loyal
to everything that you have promised.
I want to go home...
You need not be here.
Go back. Go home...
Or stay here and die...
I am God.
So much of the divine
piles up in me that I cannot die.
It's good to see you again.
old horse.
What is your secret?
Why don't you talk?
Were you sent from above?
From Habakukk?
Are you the flying horse.
swooping down
from the heavens to devour us?
Sad old Þorskur
is useless and unloved.
meager and frayed
from being mistreated.
He is decaying and rotting
and worn out and broken and done.
All done.
He is tired and battered.
Ragnar!
The priest fell!
Where are you going?
Let me take a look at you.
Friðrik. bring me some water!
One. two and pull!
Anna walked towards the hills.
the animals play in the forest.
The roads ahead
are broad and steep.
Madam's Honor.
the Fine Madam's Honor.
She met a man in the mountains.
the animals play in the forest.
He looked just like a horrendous
troll Madam's Honor.
the Fine Madam's Honor.
So he chopped off her head and her
feet. the animals play in the forest.
And buried her
under the roots of a tree.
Madam's Honor.
the Fine Madam's Honor.
Off he rode to the farm of Carl.
the animals play in the forest.
At the door stood dear Ida. Madam's
Honor. the Fine Madam's Honor.
Little Ida. come and play.
the animals play in the forest.
I will give you a silken scarf.
Madam's Honor.
the Fine Madam's Honor.
Take it out and show it. please.
the animals play in the forest.
But then she saw
her sister's seams.
Madam's Honor.
the Fine Madam's Honor.
Carl. dear father. rise to your feet.
the animals play in the forest.
Your daughter's killer is at the
door...
What are you singing. girl?
None of your business.
What have you got there?
Ida.
Want to see the house of the Lord?
Yes.
You can also see it.
No. thanks.
You don't speak Icelandic?
Yes. a little bit.
But I prefer speaking Danish.
Not for long. Ida.
You are Icelandic?
Well. half of me is Icelandic
and the other half...
Look. if I move my hand like this.
slowly from the right to the left...
just around the middle
I start speaking Danish...
although it's actually from left
to right. not right to left.
I speak Danish too.
Yes. but not very well. right?
Goddammit! I'm sorry!
Should I get my father?
I'll go get my father. I'm sorry.
Father!
He's awake!
You'll be glad to hear that
the construction of the church
is going well.
If everything goes according to plan.
we'll have a church up before winter.
Ragnar has been most helpful
throughout the process.
We're lucky to have him...
and so are you.
Seeing as he is the one who brought
you here. more dead than alive.
Dammit! I'm sorry...
- Don't worry. it's fine.
There's no punishment
for spilling a glass of wine.
This is what happens
when you invite an Icelander.
They drink your wine
and spill the rest!
I'll do it.
Lucas. you have been very silent.
Do you want to say something?
A prayer. perhaps?
We would be most grateful.
I thank you for your mighty kindness.
from my grateful heart. dear Lord.
And I thank you
for bringing me safely here
to Carl and his two daughters...
Ida.
Anna.
Ida and Anna.
We thank you
for the food in front of us.
for the friends that surround us.
for the love between us and
for your presence among us.
Amen.
Thank you.
We are happy to help.
and you are always welcome to visit
or dine with us.
But you have to
leave the house tomorrow.
I cannot have another man
in the house while I
raise my two daughters.
You understand. of course.
Of course...
- May I ask you a question?
Why the long journey?
When you could have just sailed here.
I wanted to travel.
to see the land and get to know it.
photograph it and its people.
What people?
Were there many on your way?
I don't know.
Who did you meet?
I don't remember.
Of course.
It will come back to you.
So. what do you think
about this unforgiving island?
I'm sorry.
No. no worries.
It's so white out here.
Candlemas whips its knot
so very sharp and hard.
it's white below. it's white above.
in the forest stands a powdered tree.
just like in my orchard.
It's so quiet out here.
with careful knocks on the window
only a great tit sends greetings.
Not a single bird is singing.
the finch just sways on its branch.
looks around and flutters.
Let me.
Thanks.
Do you know God?
Yes.
I'd like to meet him.
You believe in him?
Yes. but I haven't met him
the way you have.
Do you believe in magic?
Yes.
Then you have in fact met God.
but you haven't seen him
because he is a bit like magic.
Do you understand?
- No.
It's heavy.
I'm sorry.
No. it's just a lot
of equipment to carry around.
It's a camera.
Yes. I know that.
Here.
It's very nice here. thank you.
How about this?
No. please sit down.
What about this?
This feels most natural.
Why not just sit normally?
Yes. that's precisely
what I had in mind.
I think father will be very happy
with this picture.
Ida. would you please turn around?
Are you going to marry my sister?
That's an odd question.
There's nothing odd about it.
If that's what you're thinking.
it will never happen.
You don't think she'd marry me?
We are inseparable.
So. if you're marrying my sister.
you're marrying me too.
So. it's all or nothing with you?
Or two for one like a sack of coal?
How can I become a man of God?
What are you saying. Ragnar?
How can I...
become a man of God?
I don't understand.
You don't understand?
You don't understand man of God?
God's man.
God's man?
As in a man of God?
Is that what you're saying?
Ida!
Come and help me.
The Dane doesn't understand me.
you'll have to translate.
What are you writing?
A letter.
To whom?
- A friend...
Ask him how I can become
a man of God.
Stop it. just ask him!
He asks how he can become
a man of God.
How?
Yes.
Yes...
Why do you suddenly
want to be a man of God?
I...
- You start by giving yourself.
You have to give yourself.
To God?
- Yes.
There's nothing more to it?
Is that it?
And follow his words.
Follow his words.
Pray to him.
Pray.
Listen.
How do I listen?
How do I hear him?
How... can he hear him?
It's not just about hearing.
It's more of a feeling.
You must forget yourself
and submit to God by serving him.
It's not just about listening...
It's...
I need to hear it again.
He must forget himself
and submit to God by serving him.
You must forget yourself
and serve God...
or something like that.
Tell him that when I was a child
my mother told me
that the King of Denmark
was just an ordinary man.
She told me that I would grow and
that one day I would become a man.
Therefore. I always thought
that I would be the King of Denmark.
So that. in their innermost heart.
they believe in you. their God
and worship and serve you.
their maker and Savior.
who makes them holy
so that they may renounce the Devil
and all his deeds.
this wicked world's
pomp and vanity
and all the sinful desires
of the flesh.
and preserve thy holy will
and command.
and not be lost in their lives.
Fill their hearts with the love
of thy name. let a true...
There. there.
You are big.
No. no.
The rooster doesn't seem happy.
Okay.
Do you know where father's tie is?
Isn't it on the table?
I think you might have killed
the rooster's favorite chicken.
Don't you think
he will find a new one?
I don't know.
They are waiting for you.
Yes. that's good.
Can you assist me?
So... how does your old man look?
Let me see your teeth.
Dear child... you are an animal.
Now. get out of here.
Aren't you gonna kiss her?
Why couldn't you marry
these poor creatures?
Not in a half-finished church.
You are an odd one.
Why are you so serious?
Serious?
- Yes.
You look very serious.
I’m just trying to
focus on dancing...
Could I have this dance?
Thank you. father.
Your breath stinks.
It's your turn.
My turn for what?
No. no. I won't.
- Yes. sure.
Yes. indeed.
- No.
My father wants to try!
You can do it!
Thanks.
Thank you. daughter.
That was good!
I pick the priest.
Come on. priest!
Thanks. but no thanks.
- Yes. yes.
Come on.
Come on!
I think father wants to
dance with you.
Off with the coat.
Just give it to me.
Okay. come here.
Now this hand.
And here. Right?
And then we dance around.
Just try to...
And the foot... yes.
Like this. It's good.
That looks dumb.
- They look like our rooster.
Well done. priest! Well done!
Am I done?
No. you continue.
Ragnar! You take him!
Well...
Hey!
You grab here!
Don't go for my back!
Good morning. Lucas.
Good morning. Anna.
- Where's your horse?
I think I've lost it.
Was the corral open?
No.
No? That's strange.
Should we go look for it?
No. I think it will return.
I'm sure it will.
You can borrow my sister's horse.
You think she's okay with that?
I don't care.
Come.
They took my horse.
What?
Your daughter and the priest...
they took my horse.
They didn't borrow it?
It's only borrowing if you ask.
Do you think Anna
will marry the priest?
No one should have to
marry a priest.
You don't like him?
I have nothing against Lucas.
but we don't need men like him.
What kind of men do we need?
We don't need more men.
Now. check my coat.
there are letters there.
Come on! Quick!
Wait!
For my dad.
Thank you.
Goodbye.
- Goodbye.
Your horse is in trotting.
What?
Your horse is trotting...
It's better if you
can make it slow trot.
Slow trot... I don't know...
Watch me.
Try pulling a little. just a little.
and then slowly release.
Look at me.
Slowly... and back.
Anna. I didn't grow up on a horse.
But you have ridden
across all of Iceland to get here.
I want my own horse!
Þorskur!
Þorskur! Where are you!?!
You have to reward it.
With what? I have no food.
No. not with food...
you reward it by giving back.
Release.
Try giving it a kick
and then do this sound...
Come!
Come now. Lucas!
Kick it!
Are you with me?
Anna! Quickly.
Can I enter?
- Come!
Wow.
I look very serious.
And older than I
thought I looked.
You look young... and beautiful.
I want to look old and smart... wise.
I don't want to look ignorant.
But I don't want to grow old here.
What do you want to do?
I want to go home.
Then do that.
And I will. One day.
One day I will travel from my home
in Iceland to my home in Denmark.
So. you have two homes?
Yes.
You were born in Denmark?
- Yes.
I moved away when I was six.
Can you remember it?
I... can remember certain things.
I remember trees.
We don't have them here.
Nothing grows in Iceland. right?
A tree will be eaten by an animal.
a horse for example.
or the winter will tear it apart.
But it's terribly beautiful here.
Yes. it's terrible.
And beautiful.
Greetings. priest.
Ragnar.
I'm sorry... but now that the church
is almost wind-proof.
I'll start preparing my journey home.
I have to leave
before autumn really hits us.
I thought...
I could get my own
photo before I leave.
I don't understand you.
I want to own a photograph
of myself.
I still don't understand
what you're saying.
What is it you don't understand?
I just need one...
I have no silver left.
Don't pack it down yet...
- Don't touch the things!
I'm sorry.
Without silver. I cannot take
a photo. Do you understand?
Look here. there's nothing left.
There is no silver. it's finished.
Now. leave me alone.
I just need one photo. just one.
Hey! Don't touch it!
Don't touch it!
I can't and I don't want to
take a photo
of your ugly. hideous face.
you brainless swine!
Do you know what Sunday Danish is?
My mother always spoke Danish
on Sundays.
It's a tradition around here.
I wasn't really interested
in learning.
but when you hear it every week.
you slowly start to pick it up.
Whether you like it or not.
I think it's an ugly language.
it feels wrong in my throat.
You get tired from speaking it.
Don't worry.
I won't become violent.
I'm not an animal.
Are you an animal?
Did you find your horse?
I once pissed in
someone else's water.
Pray for me.
I once laughed at someone
who was injured.
Pray for me.
I have been selfish and a coward.
I have dirty thoughts
almost all the time.
Pray for me.
I have let someone die
when I could have saved their life.
Pray for me.
I'm full of shit.
I'm afraid of God.
Pray for me.
I killed your horse.
You son of a bitch!
That wasn’t so funny.
Now you need to sleep.
You smell nice.
Should I sing for you?
What happened?
I lost your horse.
That's alright. It'll come back.
It always comes back.
I lost your horse.
and I lost my horse. it's...
It doesn't matter.
I can't carry this anymore...
I am tired of all this equipment.
It doesn't matter.
Kiss me again
without closing your mouth.
I don't want you
to get involved with him.
I don't think he's good for you.
I don't think he'll make you happy.
And I don't think
he'll stay for long.
Do you hear what I'm saying?
Yes.
And what am I saying?
Don't get involved
with the priest. -Good.
Our Father. who art in heaven.
hallowed be thy Name.
Oh. God. Merciful father.
we thank you for the generosity
of your foresight and grace.
and especially
for your almighty goodness.
when you send the Holy Ghost.
the blessed consoler. to take
residence in your church
for all eternity.
and to lead. make holy
and rule thy people's hearts.
This morning.
we wait by your footstool
for new signs of your grace.
which can rectify our weaknesses.
stoke our thoughts
and instill in us a spirit of prayer
and invocation.
Grant us. we beg you that the Holy...
Grant us. we beg you
that the Holy Ghost may now rest.
And instill in us
a spirit of prayer and invocation.
Grant us...
Is it the dog?
Shhh!
Go away!
It's all right.
Should I play something?
No!
What are you doing out here?
Come. Come now.
Get it ready for me.
Why?
Just do what you're told.
Where is the priest?
There. there. Good boy.
That's good.
There now. good boy.
Follow me.
There.
What are you doing?
Father told me to get it ready.
Where is he?
Inside.
What are you doing?
Where is Lucas?
Father? Where is Lucas?
That's what I'm trying to find out.
Go back to the church.
What should I say?
I don't know.
Alright. hold it still.
What are you planning on doing?
Talk to him.
You promise you'll just talk to him?
Anna. keep an eye on your sister.
You promise?
Yes.
Do you swear on my sister's life?
I can't do that.
Do you know why
I caught up with you so fast?
Because you don't take care
of your horse.
You need to let it rest.
And it's also too fat.
But that's not your fault.
I admit. my daughter
is to blame for that.
Get off her horse.
What do you want?
I have no ambition to be
a man of great knowledge.
The older I get. the more I realize
that I know what I know.
and that what I think...
is not very important.
I'm convinced that we are all
very small and fleeting.
I'm sorry about this. Lucas.
I truly am.
But you must've fallen off
your horse.
Everything will be okay.
Soon. flowers and grass will grow
and you will be in them...
and that's beautiful.
In Denmark I was born.
'tis there my home is.
From there my roots.
and there my world extend.
You Danish tongue.
as soft as Mother's voice is.
With you my heartbeats
O so sweetly blend.
You windswept Danish strand.
Where Dannebrog is waving.
You came - O flag - from God.
our foes outbraving!
'Tis you I love
Denmark. my native land!
GODLAND (in Danish)
GODLAND (in Icelandic)
To my parents